{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 020b0609040504020204}Lucida Console;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f45\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f47\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f48\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f49\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f50\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f51\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f55\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f56\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f57\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f58\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f59\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}
{\f60\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f66\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f67\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f268\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Lucida Console CE;}{\f269\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Lucida Console Cyr;}
{\f271\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Lucida Console Greek;}{\f272\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Lucida Console Tur;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 Heading;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon19 \snext0 
Header (topic);}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 header;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext21 Glossary topic;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri0\sa240\widctlpar\tx360\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 
Glossary topic text;}{\s22\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext22 footer;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1955752728\listsimple{\listlevel
\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01*;}{\levelnumbers;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 }{\listname ;}\listid-2}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-2
\listoverridecount1{\lfolevel\listoverrideformat{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li360 }}\ls1}}{\info{\author Avery Lee}{\operator me}{\creatim\yr1998\mo7\dy2\hr13\min43}{\revtim\yr2000\mo3\dy23\hr21\min29}{\version10}{\edmins44}{\nofpages17}{\nofwords1292}{\nofchars7370}{\*\company  }
{\nofcharsws9050}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_0}}}{
 Warning: About to save an uncompressed file
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
By default, VirtualDub does not automatically recompress video data that it processes, resulting in raw video data being written to the AVI file.  This
 results in the absolute highest quality, because the processed output is written straight to disk, but also results in huge files.  In many cases, writing uncompressed data slows down processing because of the sheer amount of data being written to disk.

\par 
\par The simple fix is to enable video compression:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs18 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin360\itap0 {Under the }{\i Video}{ menu, make sure }
{\i Full Processing Mode}{ is set.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs18 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin360\itap0 {Select }{\i Video, Compression\'85}{
 and choose a suitable video codec.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_1}}}{ Warning: Video compression not active
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i Direct Stream Copy}{ mode 
tells VirtualDub to send data straight from input to output.  This is very fast and makes sure the output video looks exactly like the video, which is very useful for audio processing.  However, few of VirtualDub\rquote 
s processing functions are available in this mode.
\par 
\par To enable video compression, the video mode must be set to either }{\i Normal Recompress}{ or }{\i Full Processing Mode}{.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_2}}}{ Warning: Outdated compression codec
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {You have selected a video compression algorithm which is inferior to other available 
codecs.  By coincidence, the outdated codecs listed here have been included with Video for Windows ever since Windows 3.1, and are the only ones shipped with the original retail version of Windows 95, so you may want to ignore this warning and compress an
yway.
\par 
\par }{\b Microsoft Video 1}{  This codec produces large files that appear very blocky, and more importantly, }{\i cannot produce a perfect frame no matter how much space you throw at it}{
.  It had appeal during the days of the 80286 and 80386 CPUs because of its high speed, but finds little use today.
\par 
\par }{\b Intel Indeo R3.2}{  Intel\rquote s first widely available codec.  It\rquote s very blocky with highly saturated color gradients, and produces dithering in its output.  It has been shadowed by Intel\rquote s own newer codecs; Indeo 4.1/4.5 is a
vailable on both Windows and Macintosh, and 5.0/5.1 for Windows.  The Indeo 5.1 codec decompresses slower but compresses several times faster than its predecessors, and with much improved quality.
\par 
\par }{\b SuperMac/Radius Cinepak}{  The long-standing favorite of Mac
intosh users before the appearance of Intel Indeo 4 for QuickTime and the recent reigning champion, the Sorenson codec.  This codec decompresses several times faster than Indeo 5 but is slower at compression and produces blockier output.  It attempts to i
ntelligently mark scene changes with keyframes, but in general the output of this codec just sucks in both quality and size.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_3}}}{ Warning: Audio compression inactive
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The audio mode is set to }{\i Direct Stream Copy}{ mode, so the audio track in your in
put file will not be touched, and the current audio compressor will be ignored.  To use the audio compressor you have selected, the audio mode needs to be set to }{\i Full Processing Mode}{.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_4}}}{ Warning: Filters inactive
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {VirtualDub\rquote s filters only activate in }{\i Full Processing Mode}{
.  Most filters modify video data too extensively for any hope of preserving the original compressed video, and require recompression.  If you have not already set one, you will need to select a video compression codec as well with the }{\i 
Video, Compression\'85}{ menu option.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_6}}}{ Warning: Video compression quality >90%
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Most video codecs are designed to work at a moderate compression level, and work l
ess efficiently as you increase the compression quality level; the step from 90-95% usually takes more space than the step from 80-85%.  Usually, reducing quality to 90% or so saves a lot of space without visible change in the output video.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_7}}}{ Warning: No keyframe interval set
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Video players need to rewind to the last keyframe and \lquote fast forward\rquote 
 when you seek to the middle of a file.  If there are no keyframes in a file, the player has to fast forward }{\i from the beginning every time you seek in the video}{
.  This can take more than five minutes in a large file.  For this reason, keyframes are almost mandatory in a video file.
\par 
\par To alter the keyframe interval, select }{\i Video, Compression\'85}{ from the menu, make sure \lquote keyframes\rquote  is checked, and enter in a non-zero value.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_8}}}{ Warning: Output color depth is set to 16-bit
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
VirtualDub has been set to 16-bit output for either speed or space savings.  When video compression is enabled, this is usually undesirable \endash  it won\rquote t save any space, and usually adds banding to the file.  You can fix this by using the }{\i 
Video, Color Depth\'85}{ option.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_9}}}{ Warning: Audio interleaving is off
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i Audio interleaving}{ puts small chunks of audio in between video frames in the file, so the player can walk through the f
ile in one pass and pick up both audio and video as it goes.  Without interleaving, the player must jump back and forth between audio and video portions of the file.  Enable audio interleaving through the }{\i Audio, Interleaving\'85}{ menu option.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_10}}}{ Warning: Fast repack mode selected
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Fast repack mode
 can significantly speed recompression time if the video codecs are able to negotiate a common YUV format.  However, some codecs do not handle YUV proper
ly, occasionally resulting in upside-down video.  If this happens, switch to slow repack or full processing mode.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_11}}Warn}{ing: Attempt to use a hacked compression driver
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The \'93DivX\'94 codec is a hacked version of the Microsoft MPEG-4 codec.  Because this is a modified
 binary, there is always the possibility that the changes to the codec may have destabilized the driver, causing VirtualDub to act erratically or crash.  If you decide to continue using this codec, you\rquote 
re completely on your own with any problems you encounter.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_COACH_12}}}{Warning: Using MPEG-4 V3 in an AVI file
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The Microsoft MPEG-4 driver was a part of Microsoft\rquote s NetShow package, which has now become Windows Media T
ools and Player.  Beginning with build 4.00.3845 of 
Windows Media, this format cannot be used in AVI files; the drivers will refuse to compress and decompress the format.  If you generate an MPEG-4 V3 stream in an AVI file, Windows Media Player will not be able to find an appropriate decompressor for i
t and will refuse to play the file.  However, you can convert the resulting AVI file to a playable ASF using Microsoft\rquote s }{\f2 vidtoasf}{ tool.
\par 
\par If this is troubling to you, consider using MPEG-4 V2.  This format is close to or similar to V3 quality-wise, has better speed, particularly on non-Intel CPUs, and can freely be used in AVI files.  You may have to upgrade to the latest ver
sion of Windows Media Tools, however, to enable MPEG-4 V2 compression.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl \pard\plain 
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_CAPWARN_PINNACLE}}}{ Warning: Miro/Pinnacle capture drivers detected
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Some miroVIDEO capture cards from Pinnacle Systems, such as the DRX/DC10, resort to an emu
lated overlay when used with a graphics card that cannot provide a true video overlay.  This \'93primary overlay\'94
 mode is still very fast but can result in a lot of flickering, garbage on screen, and very slow GUI window operation, even on fast Pentium II sys
tems.  Disabling overlay, by switching to preview mode or turning off the capture view altogether solves the problem.  This doesn\rquote t occur if the DCxx is using a true video overlay on the graphics card.
\par 
\par VirtualDub has built-in workarounds to alleviate this problem.  To enable the workarounds, select the }{\i Preferences\'85}{ dialog, select the miroVIDEO driver, and click the }{\i Disable overlay for menus and dialogs}{
 option.  VirtualDub will then automatically disable and re-enable overlay as appropriate to speed up the user interface.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_CAPWARN_ZORAN}}}{ Warning: Zoran drivers detected
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Some TV tuner cards are modified Zoran H20 reference designs, and at least one device \endash  the Iomega Buz \endash 
 is based on the H22 design.  Drivers for these cards that were written by Zoran or were based off of such drivers cannot time frame grabbing more accurately than the nearest millisecond.  As a result, some of the popular framerates \endash 
 such as 15.000 and 29.970 fps \endash  cannot be hit with this driver, and attempting to do so can result in dropped frames and/or jerky capture files.
\par 
\par The only known workaround at this time is to adjust the capture framerate to the nearest millisecond.  There is a button in VirtualDub\rquote s }{\i Settings\'85}{ dialog to do this.  Adjusted framerates, such as 15.151 and 30.30
3 fps, are also available in the quick framerate menu.  The }{\i Average Frame Rate}{ field in the side panel will tell you if the capture card is capturing off-rate.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page }{\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f28\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super #}{ IDH_CAPWARN_BROOKTREE}}}{Warning: Brooktree Bt848/878 drivers detected
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Depending on the modifications your capture card maker has made to the Brooktree reference drivers, you may have to manually disable overlay to capture above 240 scanlines, i.e. 640x480.  You may also get field swapping when capturing in the YUY2 (YUV 4:2
:2) format.
\par 
\par On the good side, the reference drivers allow arbitrary image sizes (352x240) and some additional YUV formats (UYVY) that may not be exposed by your particular driver\rquote s Video Format dialog box.  These extra features, if present, can be accessed
 through VirtualDub\rquote s }{\i Set Custom Format\'85 (Shift-F)}{ function.
\par 
\par }}