{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f37\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Lucida Console;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar \f5\fs18 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar \f37\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext15 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive\super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{
\s17\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 Heading;}{\s18\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f5\fs32 \sbasedon19\snext0 Header (topic);}{\s19\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f5\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext19 header;}{\s20\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\fs18 
\sbasedon0\snext21 Glossary topic;}{\s21\sa240\widctlpar\tx360 \f5\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext20 Glossary topic text;}{\s22\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f5\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}}{\info{\author Avery Lee}{\operator Me}
{\creatim\yr1998\mo7\dy2\hr13\min43}{\revtim\yr1999\mo8\dy6\hr21\min31}{\version4}{\edmins37}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords378}{\nofchars2158}{\*\company  }{\vern57431}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\fs18 {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f37\fs18 {\cs16\super #}IDH_TROUBLE_CAP}>{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\widctlpar \f37\fs18 {\cs16\super >}helpme}}Video capture troubleshooter
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs18 \{button ,ALink(trouble_cap_droppedframes)\} I\rquote m getting dropped frames during video capture.
\par 
\par \{button ,ALink(trouble_cap_deviceabsent)\} My capture device isn\rquote t on the list.
\par 
\par \{button ,ALink(trouble_cap_overlay)\} I can\rquote t get overlay working.
\par \pard\plain \s17\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\fs18 \page Video capture troubleshooter: dropped frames
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs18 
\par Choose the option that best describes the problem.
\par 
\par \{button ,ALink(trouble_cap_dropstart)\} dropping frames immediately at start
\par 
\par \{button ,ALink(trouble_cap_dropcont)\} occasional dropped frames throughout capture
\par 
\par \{button ,ALink(trouble_cap_droppoint)\} frames being dropped at specific points in input video
\par \pard\plain \s17\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\fs18 \page Video capture troubleshooter: dropped frames at start
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs18 It\rquote s not unusual to get one or two frames dropped at the start of the capture operation, 
to align the video to the audio track.  Usually this is the very first frame in the video, so no video data has been lost.  However, a large drop of 10 frames or more at the start could mean VirtualDub is having trouble starting the AVI file.  In this cas
e, consider pre-allocating space through the Allocate option in the File menu, or enable the \ldblquote wait for OK before starting capture\rdblquote  option in the Settings dialog.
\par \pard\plain \s17\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\fs18 \page Video capture troubleshooter: occasional dropped frames throughout capture
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs18 
\par \pard \widctlpar Try the capture operation using F7 (test capture).  This simulates the capture operation without writing data to disk.
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par \{button ,ALink()\} Frames are still being dropped.
\par 
\par \{button ,ALink()\} Few or no frames are being dropped.
\par \pard\plain \s17\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\fs18 \page Video capture troubleshooter: Source or device-based frame drops
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs18 If you 
\par \pard\plain \s17\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\fs18 \page Video capture troubleshooter: CPU or timing-based frame drops
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs18 Because test mode (F7) bypasses the disk, not dropping frames in Testing mode usually means your disk I/O system is not keeping up with the capture operation.  If you are using AVICap mode, try switching to
\par Internal mode.  If you are using Internal mode, check the Disk I/O settings.  Consider increasing the number of cache chunks to 4 and changing the cache chunk size.
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par \pard \widctlpar 
This can also be a sign of excessive CPU usage.  If you are using video compression, reduce the load by switching to a faster codec or tweaking the quality and keyframe intervals.  Also, if you know how, check to see if bus mastering (DMA) is enabled on y
our capture drive.
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par \pard \widctlpar Timing drops are rare but consis
tent.  Constantly drifting jitter and displacement values, shown in the status bar at the bottom of the window, indicate drifting video frame timing.  Subtly adjusting the frame rate until these values stay nearly constant should help.  If not, dropping o
ne or two frames every few minutes is not a big concern.
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par }